6/12/2019

Homework:
    -

Things to Know
    1. What is a demand curve?
    2. What is the difference between a shift or change in demand and a change in quantity demanded.
    3. What will cause a demand curve to shift?
    4. What will cause a change in quantity demanded?

I. Demand Curve 
    - An individual's demand curve for a good such as good X is a schedule or set of quantities
        demanded for good X at various prices of good X.
        + Given:
            1. A consumer's tastes/preferences
            2. Income
            3. Wealth
            4. Expectations
            5. The price of other goods
            6. The consumers goals or desires
    - Demand represents a willingness to pay
        + We would argue that a consumer will buy one more unit of a good or service only if she or he 
            gets a benefit from it. (RECALL MARGINALISM!)
        + The benefit is subjective, but that subjective benefit is the motivation for buying.
        + The rational consumer will want to balance that benefit against the cost of the purchase,
            and buy accordingly.
        + The cost of any purchase is an opportunity cost.
        + If sellers are offering coffee at $15 per pount I would purchase 3 pounds of coffee.
        + If the price falls to $12 per pound, I would increase my purchases to 4 pounds.
        + The opportunity cost of buying the coffee is what I give up or what I don't spend my money on.
    - What determines willingness to Pay?
        + The value you get from the good.
            * How do we measure value?
            * We can't really measure value directly.
            * Economists argue that the value received from a good is represented as utility.
            * It is the value from each successive good you consume > marginal utility (MU) which represents
                the maximum price you are willing to pay for the quantity of the good.
            * For the quantity of the good... And that the additional utility derived from additional units
                of the good consumed declines.
            * Since MU is diminishing, a demand curve is downward sloping.
            * For any given level of income, wealth, other goods prices, and expectations, there is a maximum
                willingness to pay for a good, any good.
            * One could argue that buying things out of a habit yields utility, one doesn't have to waste time
                thinking about what to do.
    - Changes in the consumer's income
        + If income rises and demand shifts to the right, there is an increase in willingness to pay.
        + This is a normal response, hence we say the good is a normal good.
        + If income rises but there is a decrease in willingness to pay, the demand curve shifts left or down.
    - The price of other goods
        + If the price of another good rises and you are willing to pay more for good X, X would be seen as a substitute
            for the other good.
        + If the price of Avalanche Hockey tickets rises, more people may go to DU hockey games.
        + If the price of another good rises and you are willing to pay less for good X, good X would be 
            seen as a complement for the other good. Since you are buying less of the other good, you will want less of Good X.
        + If the price of Coffee rises, people will demand less coffee mugs.
    - Changes in wealth
        + If one's wealth changes, your willingness to pay a particular price will change.
    - Changes in one's goals 
    - A similar line of reasoning can be applied to expectations
    - Any changes in 1 to 6 will cause the demand curve to shift. The willingness to pay for each quantity of the good
        changes. This is a change in demand.
    - A change in the good's price will result in a change in the quantity demanded of the good. The curve doesn't move, we simply
        consume a different quantity.
    