
Top of Pyramid
1. Inattention to Results 
    2. Avoidance of Accountability 
        3. Lack of Commitment 
            4. Fear of Conflict 
                5. Absence of Trust 
                Bottom of Pyramid

I. The Five Dysfunctions of a Team
    - The first step toward reducing misunderstandings and confusion within a team is to understand that there are five dysfunctions
    and that each one that applies has to be addressed separately.
    1. Absence of Trust
        + The root cause of absence of trust lies with the team members being unable to show their weaknesses
        + To be vulnerable and open with one another
        + The absence of trust is a huge waste of time and energy as team members invest their time and energy in defensive behaviors
            * Reluctant to ask for help
            * Assist each other
        + Teams can overcome this dysfunction by sharing experiences
            * Demonstrating credibility
            * Developing strong insight into the unique characteristics of team members
        + Trust is knowing that when a team member does push you, they're doing it because they care about the team.
        + The fear of being vulnerable with team members prevents the building of trust within the team.
        + This is different from reliance where you might 'trust' someone to always do good work based on their track record
        + Most people have difficulty admitting their weaknesses and faults
            * This is because of the competitive instincts we develop at work
            * People are constantly trying to protect their repuatations, CYA (Cover Your Ass), and cast blame on others when a mistake is made.
        + Members of teams with an absence of trust:
            a) Conceal their weaknesses and mistakes from one another 
            b) Hesitate to ask for help or provide constructive feedback 
            c) Hesitate to offer help outside their own areas of responsibility 
            d) Jump to conclusions about the intentions and aptitudes of others without attempting to clarify them 
            e) Failt to recognize and tap into one another's skills and experiences 
            f) Hold Grudges 
            g) Dread meetings and find reasons to avoid spending time togethers
        + Members of Trusting Teams:
            a) Admit weaknesses and mistakes
            b) Ask for help
            c) Accept questions and input about their areas of responsibility 
            d) Give one another the benefit of the doubt before arriving at a negative conclusion 
            e) Take risks in offering feedback and assistance
            f) Appreciate and tap into another's skills and experiences 
            g) Take risks in offering feedback and assistance 
            h) Focus time and energy on important issues, not politics 
            i) Offer and accept apologies without hesitation
            j) Look forward to meetings and other opportunties to work as a group <I hate this person tbh>
    2. Fear of Conflict
        + Teams that are lacking trust are incapable of having unfiltered, passionate debate about things that matter
        + This causes team members to avoid Conflict
            * replacing it with an artificial harmony
        + In a setting where team members do not openly express their opinions, inferior decisions are often the result.
        + When working in teams you need to understand that conflict is productive
        + The desire to preserve artificial harmony stifles the occurrence of productive, ideological conflict.
        + Teams that fear conflict:
            a) Have boring meetings
            b) Create environments where back-channel politics and personal attacks thrive
            c) Ignore controversial topics that are critical to team success 
            d) fail to tap into all the opinions and perspectives of team members 
            e) waste time and energy with posturing and interpersonal risk management
        + Teams that engage in conflict 
            a) Have lively, interesting meetings 
            b) Extract and exploit the ideas of all team members 
            c) Solve real problems quickly 
            d) Minimize politics 
            e) Put critical topics on the table for discussion
    - How do you overcome fear of conflict?
        > Simply identifying what is positive conflict and acknowledging that it is productive can go a long way.
        > It is also important to look for buried disagreements and try to bring them to light. 
        > This forces the team to start working through them. 
    3. Lack of Commitment
        + Without conflict, it is not easy for team members to commit and buy-in to decisions
        + This results in an environment where ambiguity prevails.
        + People will buy into something when their opinions are included in the deision-making process
        + For Example
            * Through debate, Productive teams make joint and transparent decisions
            * Are confident that they have the support of each team member.
            * This is not as much about seeking consensus but making sure everyone is heard
        + Lack of clarity or buy-in prevents team members from making decision they will stick to
        + A team that fails to commit:
            a) Creates ambiguity among the team about direction and priorities 
            b) Watches windows of opportunity close due to excessive analysis and unnecessary delay 
            c) Breeds lack of confidence and fear of failure 
            d) Revisits discussions and decisions again and again 
            e) Encourages second-guessing among tea members
        + A team that commits:
            a) Creates clarity around direction and priorities
            b) Aligns the entire team around common objectives
            c) Develops an ability to lear from mistakes
            d) Takes advantage of opportunites before competitors do
            e) Moves forward wihtout hesitation 
            d) Changes direction without hesitation or guilt
    - How do you overcome lack of commitment?
        > The Primary technique he is cascading communication.
            * This means leaders must go out and communicate the results to their teams
        > When forces to explain something to employees, they'll make sure all concerns are aired (healthy conflict).
        > It also ensures everyone is on the same page.
        > When leaders are on the same page and all go out and communicate the same message, it sends a powerful message to employees.
        > Setting deadlines for decisions and creating worst-case scenario contingencies also helps create commitment to decisions.
        > The biggest challenge for a leader is this situation is being okay with making a decision that may ultimately be wrong.
    4. Avoidance of Accountability
        + When teams don't commit, you can't have accountability:
            * People aren't going to hold each other accountable if they haven't clearly bought into the plan
        + In a well-functioning team:
            * It's the responsibility of each team member to hold one another accountable
            * Accept it when other hold them accountable.
        + Very often, the key to success is the measurement of progress:
            * Making clear what the team's standards are
            * What needs to be done
            * By whom
            * By when
        + The need to avoid interpersonal discomfort prevents team members from holding one another accoutable for their behaviors and performance
        + A team that avoid accountability: 
            a) Creates resentment among team members who have different standards of performance 
            b) Encourages mediocrity 
            c) Misses deadlines and key deliverables
            d) Places an undue burden on the team leader as the sole source of discipline
        + A team that hold another accountable: 
            a) Ensures that poor performers feel pressure to improve 
            b) Identifies potential problems quickly by questioning one another's approaches without hesitation 
            c) Establishes respect among team members who are held to the same high standards 
            d) Avoids excessive bureaucracy around performance management and corrective action
    - How do you create a culture of accountability? 
        + The enemy of accountability is ambiguity 
        + Publishing clear goals and standards is vital to set expectations 
        + Setting team goals and team rewards helps here as well.
        + People are less likely to watch someone fail if the entire team has a stake
    5. Inattention to Results 
        + A team can only become results oriented when all team members place the team's results first 
        + When individuals aren't held accountable, Team members naturally tend to look out for their own interests
        rather than the interests of the team.
        + Teams can overcome this dysfunction:
            * Make the team results clear 
            * Rewarding the behaviors that contribute to the team's results
        + The pursuit of individual goals and personal status erodes the focus on collective success
    - Primary role of the Leader in overcoming these dysfunctions 
        + Lead by example 
        + Set the tone for the whole team 
            > This includes being the first one to be vulnerable
        + Encouraging debate and conflict 
        + Making responsibilities and deadlines clear
        + Setting the team's standards
        + Clear on the team's results
            1. Focus on the Collective Outcomes
            2. Confront Difficult issues
            3. Force Clarity and Closure
            4. Mine for Conflict 
            5. Go First!
        + A team that is not focused on results:
            * Stagnates/fails to grow 
            * Rarely defeats competitors 
            * Loses achievement-oriented employees 
            * Encourages team members to focus on their career and individual goals
            * Is easily distracted
        + A team that focuses on collective results 
            * Retains achievement-oriented employees 
            * Minimizes individualistic behavior 
            * Enjoys success and suffers failure acutely
            * Benefits from individuals who subjugate their own goals/interests for the good of the team 
            * Avoids distractions
    - How do teams stay results focused?
        + One important tool is having a scoreboard of some support
        + Have some kind of metrics that people can look at and quickly understand whether or not the team is succeeding
        + Publicly declare the goals
        + Reward the team based on achieving those results
    - Popular Quote from Book:
        + "Successful teamwork is not about mastering subtle, sophisticated theories, but rather about combining common sense with uncommon levels
        of discipline and persistence. Ironically, teams succeed because they are exceedingly human. By acknowledging the imperfections of their humaniy,
        members of a functional teams overcome the natural tendencies to make teamwork so elusive."
